1. In your own words, explain the benefits of normalization. Include a real-world scenario where normalization is necessary.

        The benefits of normalization would be saving space due to having less repeated data and also having better organization. I'm not sure
        of a real world scenario where it would be "necessary", but I'm sure it would be highly preferred and used in any kind of records database.

2. List and explain the different normal forms and how they relate to one another, with regard to your real-world scenario in the first question.

        1NF - a single column cannot have more than one value!
        2NF - 1NF + all columns have to relate to each other.
        3NF - 2NF + cannot have a column that is dependant on another column that is dependant on the primary key.
        BCNF - 3NF + cannot have dependencies on anything but primary key.

3. The student_records table below shows the students and their grades in different subjects. The table is already in first normal form (1NF). 
    Convert this table to the third normal form (3NF) using the techniques you learned in this checkpoint.

        SEE FILE records.txt

4. In your own words, explain the potential disadvantages of normalizing the data above. What are its trade-offs? Discuss this with your mentor.

        I guess we can discuss in depth on Friday, but the disadvantages would be slower searching/queries due to having to join tables.

5. Looking at the tables you have normalized. If you need to denormalize to improve query performance or speed up reporting, how would you carry out denormalization 
    for this database design? Discuss potential strategies with your mentor.

        Mostly I think I would remove the grades table and add 2 columns to the student table - a grade column that would have the letter grade and a professor_id 
        column that would be a foreign key linking to the professor table.  I would still have separate tables for students and professors.

6. Discuss the trade-offs between data normalization and denormalization in this scenario with your mentor.

        I suppose we'll discuss this on Friday?